№1. Поставить к словам артиклям

1. the Windsor Castle
2. the Pennines
3. a pub (Dave's Pub — без артикля, так как это конкретное название)
4. Queen Elizabeth (если речь идет о конкретной королеве)
5. the Amazon
6. the High Street
7. the Mall (street in London)
8. the Hague
9. the MG motorway
10. the Mary Rose
11. a tango (если говорим о танце в общем)
12. the Crimean War
13. Time magazine (или просто Time, если refer to the magazine as a proper name)
14. the October (если речь идет о конкретном фильме; в противном случае без артикля)
15. the Tudors
16. the Hyde Park

17. the Red Torch (theatre)
18. the Caspian Sea
19. the Fifth Avenue
20. Belomor (без артикля, если речь о водоеме в общем)
21. the Americas
22. the Sahara Desert
23. the Belfast
24. a lake Balaton (если говорим о каком-то озере в общем контексте)
25. the Vatican
26. Times Square
27. the Ireland
28. the Hermitage
29. the Victoria Station
30. the Red Lion (pub)
31. the Carlton (hotel)
32. the Russian Museum
33. the Netherlands
34. the Canary Islands
35. the Czech Republic
36. the Great Lakes
37. the Kennedy Airport
38. a Madagascar (если говорим об этом острове как о примере)
39. an April (если говорим о месяце в общем контексте; иначе без артикля)
40. the Strand (street in London)
41. the Tower Bridge

№2 Here is the text with the appropriate articles (a/an, the) or blanks filled in:


It has been announced that for (1) the third consecutive month there has been (2) a rise in (3) the number of people unemployed, rather than (4) a fall that had been predicted. (5) The rise was blamed on (6) the continuing uncertainty over (7) the government economic policy, and couldn't come at (8) a worse time for (9) the Prime Minister, who is facing (10) growing criticism over (11) the way (12) the present crisis is being handled. (13) The MPs are increasingly voicing (14) their fears that despite (15) the recent devaluation of (16) the pound and cuts in (17) the interest rates, (18) the government still expects (19) the recovery of the economy to take three or even four years. To make (20) matters worse, (21) the number of small businesses going into (22) liquidation is still at (23) a record level, and (24) the housing market is showing no signs of recovery. Some backbenchers expect (25) a general election before (26) the winter unless there is (27) an end of (28) the rapid change of (29) fortune.

№3 Underline the most suitable option. A dash (-) means that no article is included.

a) Helen doesn't like the cream cakes sold in the local bakery.  
b) Handball is fast becoming a popular sport worldwide.  
c) We could see that the Alps were covered in the snow.  
d) It's a long time since I met a lovely person like you!  
e) Diana has a degree in engineering from the University of London.  
f) At the present moment, the man seems to have an uncertain future.  
g) The problem for today's students is how to survive financially.  
h) The French enjoy spending holidays in the countryside.  
i) Please do not turn on the water-heater in the bathroom.  
j) Sue bought the Picasso I was telling you about the last week.  


№4  Correct the errors in these sentences.

a) It's not a first-class accommodation unless it has a private bathroom.

*It's not first class accommodation unless it has a private bathroom.

b) On this record twins play piano duet.

*On this record, the twins play a piano duet. 

c) The halfway through meal we realised what walter had said.

*Halfway through the meal, we realised what Walter had said.

d) If the Mrs Hillier phones, say I'm away on trip.

*If Mrs. Hillier phones, say I'm away on a trip.  

e) There is a wonderful scenery in eastern part of Turkey.

*There is wonderful scenery in the eastern part of Turkey.  

f) Cocker spaniel is one of most popular pet dogs.

*The Cocker Spaniel is one of the most popular pet dogs.  

g) There is going to be fog and a cold weather all the next week.

*There is going to be fog and cold weather all of the next week.

h) I spent very interesting holiday at the Lake Coniston in England.

*I spent a very interesting holiday at Lake Coniston in England.

i) We are against war in general, so of course we are against war like this between superpower and developing country. 

*We are against war in general, so of course, we are against wars like this one between a superpower and a developing country.

j) The burglaries are definitely on increase.

*The burglaries are definitely on the increase.




№5  Here is the text with the appropriate articles (a/an, the) or blanks filled in:


a) I'm going to stand for Parliament at the next election.  
b) When I left the station, I had to stand in a queue for a taxi for a long time.  
c) We took a trip around London and saw the Tower Bridge.  
d) The happiness of the majority depends on hard work for everyone.  
e) The most main roads in this part of the country follow the line of roads built by the Romans.  
f) Have you got the latest record by the Gipsy Kings?  
g) If I had the time, I would like to take up archery.  
h) We spent a pleasant evening having drinks at the Robin Hood.  
i) The Nile flows right through the city.  
j) The summer I spent in the USA was one of the best in my life.  
